The difference between hierarchy
and plan is a very simple concept.
Hierarchies are more vertical,
there are more levels or ranges
between management and employees
from below and planes
is the opposite.
What I want us to understand is what
the benefits are or when it makes
sense to one or the other.
In principle, the hierarchies
help us to be more efficient
because we function like a
clock or as a factory.
The mechanism is well defined.
So, this when you are in an environment
in which there is no uncertainty,
in which the only thing you have
to do is what you do today, that
it is all very repetitive, that
you do not need to innovate,
etc., can make sense a hierarchical
structure that also provides
you with a lot of control,
etc.
What it brings is efficiency
because clear how the parts
work very well is very efficient
in everything.
Get the results you already
know in a way that you absolutely
have proven.
But what we have to keep in mind
is that the markets, the world
in general is increasingly dynamic,
it is increasingly difficult for
you to be competitive being
a very hierarchical or very
vertical organization.
Because it is very difficult to innovate,
because it is very difficult, because you
are a very unflexible people.
Now let's look at the horizons
and the plans.
In this case, it is the opposite.
If you want to be able to adapt
to change, to put in place many
projects, to have an organization,
a culture that is more creative,
well because in these cases
it is much better that you
are more horizontal because
information flows better,
because people are more
motivated, etc.
In this case, we should combine the
structure with a culture in which
there is a lot of autonomy, a lot
of flexibility, etc.
That is what we have studied that
is called adocracy.
Another advantage and very important
to keep in mind of the structures
that are more flat is that the
entire organization is closer
to the customer.
It is easier to be client-centered.
I will put it to you with an example.
Let's think of a people who have
a relationship with the customer,
imagine the customer service
or imagine the commercial delegates.
They are the ones who have a daily relationship
with the customer.
Getting feedback, etc.
Those who know him.
But it is that information if
it has to reach those who make the
decisions, imagine then that it is
the general manager or the director
of marketing or the commercial
director, etc.
If there are many levels the
information does not flow and in the
end what happens is that the people
who are up making the important decisions
do not know the client.
And this is a nonsense because knowing
and understanding the customer well is
the basis of absolutely everything.
Therefore, if we want to be very
close to the customer, if we want
the people who make decisions
to be, know, understand the
customer's problems, objections
that arise, etc.
How are the customers?
We have to be a much more flat
structure in which there are fewer
levels and in which communication
from above down and from below
up is encouraged.